you all ready guess so
it's now or never okay um
all right well then let me uh demo
uh this is gonna be a real short demo um
because it's just um
showing some things that we're working
on um
so i think that uh i'm gonna
quickly share my screen if that's okay
i'm allowed to do that let's see
so uh yesterday um you
uh during the all hands um
we probably uh i believe will mention
that
we were on the main project for the
um w3 uh dt
data systems team because we are putting
ipld prime into
go ipfs um we
um earlier this week we built a minimal
implementation of that by basically uh
i don't know i don't know what you want
to call it like a hack
of basically just making ipld prime look
like the old one
um so we built this concept of
a of a i believe it's of a universal
node which uh
so oh by the way who knows that i have
no idea who how many people know what i
feel the prime is old ipld
there's two different libraries um ipld
prime
is like a super awesome library that
does like all the parts of the ipld spec
including like selectors including
schemas um it's like an awesome data
model for like all of our stuff
and uh then i the old ipld is like a
thing that
is uh does some things but not
most of the ipld spec um and it unlocks
like all these cool data thing
uh like data operations that we could be
doing in our
um um in all of our applications if we
can get it
uh all the way to the um edges of go
ipfs so we built this thing
um that basically like like we started
off by building um
uh this sort of hack which uh effect
effectively takes like
the the new ipld prime and wraps it in
something that makes it look like the
old idea
um uh which is fine that's like often
like the easiest way to do a transition
is to just like
put in something that gets you to a
baseline of not having to move over all
your stuff at once and then like you can
work from there
um so we built this uh thing called the
universal node
that's the basic unit of of both
libraries is the notion of a node though
they mean different things
um uh but we built one that like does
both of them
um and then we um uh
and then we went and there's a service
uh
that sort of is like your universal
entry point um for working
with ipld in ipfs uh currently
um and that's this library called go
merkle dag um
this is the thing that allows you to um
essentially
this is a thing that essentially allows
you to um
for example um read in ipld
data um write ipld data uh
uh delete stuff um and when and when i
say read that means like
get a load in ipld uh data
from like a block store or potentially
from
uh from the from the ipfs network um
uh it's sort of a transparent layer um
and
uh it also it does it does a whole lot
of things it also includes the
um dag protobuf implementation of ipld
um of the the old ipld um
uh for the old form of like ld so we
so we built this like whole like pr to
like basically
make that use uh ipld prime under the
hood and that's all fine this gets us to
the point where we have basically
the old interfaces uh for working with
ipld
in ipfs um that use ipld prime under the
hood and that's great
however all those old interfaces are not
really well designed for working with
ipld prime
this enables us to get it into the
system um without having to convert
everything at once
um but it does not uh build new
interfaces that are tailor-made for um
uh ipld prime um so we've now
uh we so now we're working on some of
that and the thing that i want to just
demonstrate today
i'm sorry for this super long intro um
is the first thing that we built which
is what we're calling the ipfs
fetcher um uh this is the
um this is the uh interface
uh that you will use uh to request ipld
data
um either from loca uh from your local
store
or from uh the uh
or from the inner uh from the fbi
network potentially
um and so i'm gonna pull that up um
and uh we are uh
[Music]
one thing we've we've decided to break
up the
fetching versus the writing parts of
ipld um
and one thing that that's nice about
this uh that this allows you to do is
that
uh in the old libraries um you have this
note this core notion of like creating
sessions
this may be getting super technical i
apologize um
and uh now um uh and now like
and and you basically always wanted
sessions but it was a late bolted on
feature so we had all this code that
sometimes wasn't use it yet
um and in the new version like the only
way you can work with stuff is through
sessions so that's great because it
forces you to do that um and make sure
that you're
you're setting things up properly um but
um you can see we have some fetching
functions um you can fetch blocks
uh you can fetch a block that match
you can fetch a set of blocks that match
a selector
which is really great um because that
means that we can do traversals of dags
that are not
the whole dag but uh rather a selection
of the dad
but we also have like um interfaces that
will allow you to fetch
um you know a whole graph at once
um and uh
what else do we have in here um we are
building some stuff
uh like we are allowing you to start if
you've already loaded part of an ipld
tree uh you can start from a node um we
oh you know what i'm not actually using
the the right brancher
sorry we are allowing you to do
um especially we're allowing you to do
fetches with specialized node types this
is a really cool feature of ipld prime
which allows you to um
basically define a type ahead of time uh
for
your uh for the nodes you're gonna be
working with like let's say i'm working
with some kind of
specialized data structure that i want
to only look a certain type of way
um uh so we're adding uh
that as well um uh again this may not
make sense to those of you who aren't
in the weeds with code uh happy to like
do a longer
longer primer on ipld some other times
it's probably useful
um anyway so yeah so we're building
these up the current version
of this under the hood if you actually
dig into it all the way down to the
bottom
um what we are ultimately doing is just
using um
the block service uh to get uh
individual blocks when we load them
uh the block service is a is a way to
fetch blocks one by one it either loads
locally or calls out to bit swap
um but in the future we may actually
replace some of this with graph sync or
a combination of graph sync and bit swap
um
but yeah that's that's our that's our
interface and now this is going to be
like
slowly filtering up the tree into um xfs
and
whatnot so okay thanks everyone for
bearing with me that
i realized that we did not have a very
like
we have very like programmer friendly
and not very non-programmer friendly
stuff to demo so thanks
yeah that's all i got uh or questions
concerns
super cool thank you for demoing awesome
to have
getting getting stuff together quickly
and moving fast